# Shutter Controller - ESP8266 server
Before reading this through make sure you have read the [project's ReadMe](/ReadMe.md).

Important note: the ESP reboots after every 48 days automatically to prevent time overflowing.

## Setting up
### Networking parameters
#### DDNS
Fix IP addresses are generally not available for end-users so this problem is usually bypassed by using a [DDNS service](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_DNS). Firstly you have to make sure your connection is not behind [NAT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation) otherwise you have to ask your internet service provider to solve this (usually this is available to users).

Next you have to register for a DDNS service provider (like No-IP, DynDNS, DuckDNS eg). You will have to choose a domain name and you will get a token which is needed for updating your address. Don't forget to [forward the server's ports](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Port_forwarding) in your router (project defaults are 80 for redirection and 443 for secure connection).

#### TLS Certificate
As the communication is implemented through secure https requests you have to create a proper key and certificate for it. The easiest way is using openSSL with this command:

    openssl req -x509 -nodes -newkey rsa:1024 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -days 4096 -addext "subjectAltName = DNS:%your-domain%.com"

Make sure to add your chosen DDNS domain at the "**subjectAltName**" argument. After executing it: fill in the required fields.

### Core
The project is implemented as a [PlatformIO](https://platformio.org/) project which uses the proper Arduino core.

### Library dependencies
These libraries are added as submodules in the project, and they don't need further configuring:
 * [ArduinoQueue](https://github.com/EinarArnason/ArduinoQueue)
 * [NTP Client](https://github.com/arduino-libraries/NTPClient)
 * [nanopb](https://github.com/nanopb/nanopb)

### Configuring
The server can be configured with the `config.json` file, which is autogenerated at compilation if it does not exist
* SSID and PSWD: the `SSID` and the `password` of the local WiFi network to which the ESP connects
* DNS properties: the project uses the DuckDNS for DDNS, the used `domain` and its `token` have to be specified
* `User-name` and `password`: simple authentication credentials
* `Up` and `down pins`
* Total time of the shutter's operations of `going up` and `down`
* the `path` where the resources of the HTML+JS/WASM clients are served

The generated key and certificte files have to be placed next to the [project config file](./platformio.ini).

### Setting up the external resource provider server

On the external server the HTML+JS and the WASM clients' resources have to be placed in the same folder.
The resources can be found at the release section.

The server has to serve the files with the following headers:

* `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: your-dns.com` - allow only our application's site to fetch the resources
* `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin` - enable other sites to use these files as resources
* `Cache-Control: max-age=31536000` - cache the resources for at least a year as they will not change
